README.md, before:

# k8s-pause

[![release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause/all.svg)](https://github.com/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause/releases)
[![release](https://github.com/doodlescheduling/k8s-pause/actions/workflows/release.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/doodlescheduling/k8s-pause/actions/workflows/release.yaml)
[![report](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause?branch=master)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause.svg)](https://github.com/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause/blob/master/LICENSE)


Suspend and resume entire kubernetes namespaces! \
This controller makes this missing feature possible.

![howto](./examples/screen.gif)

## Example Usage

Suspend:
```
kubectl annotate ns/my-namespace k8s-pause/suspend=true --overwrite
```

Resume:
```
kubectl annotate ns/my-namespace k8s-pause/suspend=false --overwrite
```

## Resume profiles

It is possible to define a set of pods which are allowed to start while a namespace is not paused.
The active profile can be annotated on the namespace just like the suspend annotation. 
If no profile is defined all pods in the namespace are suspended if `k8s-pause/suspend=true` is set.

**Note**: The podSelector rules are or conditions. One ResumeProfile may match multiple pods by matchLabels or matchExpressions.
```yaml
apiVersion: pause.infra.doodle.com/v1beta1
kind: ResumeProfile
metadata:
  name: garden-services
spec:
  podSelector:
  - matchLabels:
      app: garden
      service: backend
  - matchLabels:
      app: garden
      service: frontend
  - matchLabels:
      app: postgres
```

Set resume profile:
```
kubectl annotate ns/my-namespace k8s-pause/profile=garden-services --overwrite
```

## Details

The suspend flag on namespace level will affect only but any pods. It will not touch any resources besides pods.
However it guarantees that no pod will be scheduled if the namespace is suspended no matter from where and how the pod is created.
Once the namespace is resumed it will schedule all suspended pods.

There is no reason to downscale deployments, statefulsets or any other kind of workloads, k8s-pause will handle any workloads within a namespace.


## Installation

### Requirements
Currently it is required to have [certmanager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/) deployed on the cluster with either kustomize or helm deployment.

### Bypass namespace
The controller will intercept all pod write communication. The namespace which hosts k8s-pause needs to be bypassed otherwise you won't be able to create
pods anymore!
By default you can label the namespace using:
```
kubectl label ns/my-namespace control-plane=controller-manager
```

Both kustomize and helm deployments will have this exception by default. You can configure a different rule in each way of deployment. \
**Note**: It is also good practice to have other namespaces bypassed which should not support k8s-pause. For instance `kube-system` is a good example.

### Helm

Please see [chart/k8s-pause](https://github.com/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause/tree/master/chart/k8s-pause) for the helm chart docs.

### Manifests/kustomize

Alternatively you may get the bundled manifests in each release to deploy it using kustomize or use them directly.

## Configure the controller

You may change base settings for the controller using env variables (or alternatively command line arguments).
Available env variables:

| Name  | Description | Default |
|-------|-------------| --------|
| `METRICS_ADDR` | The address of the metric endpoint binds to. | `:9556` |
| `PROBE_ADDR` | The address of the probe endpoints binds to. | `:9557` |
| `ENABLE_LEADER_ELECTION` | Enable leader election for controller manager. | `false` |
| `LEADER_ELECTION_NAMESPACE` | Change the leader election namespace. This is by default the same where the controller is deployed. | `` |
| `NAMESPACES` | The controller listens by default for all namespaces. This may be limited to a comma delimited list of dedicated namespaces. | `` |
| `CONCURRENT` | The number of concurrent reconcile workers.  | `2` |

Commit message:

Add ignore annotation (#55)
Signed-off-by: Thibault Gérondal <thibault@initia.cloud>

README.md, after:

# k8s-pause

[![release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause/all.svg)](https://github.com/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause/releases)
[![release](https://github.com/doodlescheduling/k8s-pause/actions/workflows/release.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/doodlescheduling/k8s-pause/actions/workflows/release.yaml)
[![report](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause?branch=master)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause.svg)](https://github.com/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause/blob/master/LICENSE)


Suspend and resume entire kubernetes namespaces! \
This controller makes this missing feature possible.

![howto](./examples/screen.gif)

## Example Usage

Suspend:
```
kubectl annotate ns/my-namespace k8s-pause/suspend=true --overwrite
```

Resume:
```
kubectl annotate ns/my-namespace k8s-pause/suspend=false --overwrite
```

## `k8s-pause/ignore` annotation

You can define an annotation on a pod to ensure it is ignored by the controller
and so never suspended. Use the following annotation:

```
k8s-pause/ignore: "true"
```

## Resume profiles

It is possible to define a set of pods which are allowed to start while a namespace is not paused.
The active profile can be annotated on the namespace just like the suspend annotation. 
If no profile is defined all pods in the namespace are suspended if `k8s-pause/suspend=true` is set.

**Note**: The podSelector rules are or conditions. One ResumeProfile may match multiple pods by matchLabels or matchExpressions.
```yaml
apiVersion: pause.infra.doodle.com/v1beta1
kind: ResumeProfile
metadata:
  name: garden-services
spec:
  podSelector:
  - matchLabels:
      app: garden
      service: backend
  - matchLabels:
      app: garden
      service: frontend
  - matchLabels:
      app: postgres
```

Set resume profile:
```
kubectl annotate ns/my-namespace k8s-pause/profile=garden-services --overwrite
```

## Details

The suspend flag on namespace level will affect only but any pods. It will not touch any resources besides pods.
However it guarantees that no pod will be scheduled if the namespace is suspended no matter from where and how the pod is created.
Once the namespace is resumed it will schedule all suspended pods.

There is no reason to downscale deployments, statefulsets or any other kind of workloads, k8s-pause will handle any workloads within a namespace.


## Installation

### Requirements
Currently it is required to have [certmanager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/) deployed on the cluster with either kustomize or helm deployment.

### Bypass namespace
The controller will intercept all pod write communication. The namespace which hosts k8s-pause needs to be bypassed otherwise you won't be able to create
pods anymore!
By default you can label the namespace using:
```
kubectl label ns/my-namespace control-plane=controller-manager
```

Both kustomize and helm deployments will have this exception by default. You can configure a different rule in each way of deployment. \
**Note**: It is also good practice to have other namespaces bypassed which should not support k8s-pause. For instance `kube-system` is a good example.

### Helm

Please see [chart/k8s-pause](https://github.com/DoodleScheduling/k8s-pause/tree/master/chart/k8s-pause) for the helm chart docs.

### Manifests/kustomize

Alternatively you may get the bundled manifests in each release to deploy it using kustomize or use them directly.

## Configure the controller

You may change base settings for the controller using env variables (or alternatively command line arguments).
Available env variables:

| Name  | Description | Default |
|-------|-------------| --------|
| `METRICS_ADDR` | The address of the metric endpoint binds to. | `:9556` |
| `PROBE_ADDR` | The address of the probe endpoints binds to. | `:9557` |
| `ENABLE_LEADER_ELECTION` | Enable leader election for controller manager. | `false` |
| `LEADER_ELECTION_NAMESPACE` | Change the leader election namespace. This is by default the same where the controller is deployed. | `` |
| `NAMESPACES` | The controller listens by default for all namespaces. This may be limited to a comma delimited list of dedicated namespaces. | `` |
| `CONCURRENT` | The number of concurrent reconcile workers.  | `2` |
